docs/3_user_guide.rst, before:

User  Guide
===========

Using ``epysurv`` models should be straightforward if you
are familiar with ``scikit-learn`` and ``pandas``.

Data Format
-----------

Let's first consider the models in the
:ref:`timepoint-model-api-doc`. 
Each model has a ``fit`` and a ``predict``
method that takes a ``pandas.DataFrame`` representing an
epidemiological count time series of the following form:

.. code-block:: python

                n_cases  n_outbreak_cases
    2004-01-05        0                 0
    2004-01-12        0                 0
    2004-01-19        2                 0
    2004-01-26        2                 0
    2004-02-02        1                 0


The data frame needs to have a regular ``DatetimeIndex`` and
two columns containing case counts. ``n_cases`` represents the
total number of cases observed and ``n_outbreak_cases`` the number
of cases are labeled as belonging to an outbreak. Therefore
``n_cases`` should always be bigger or equal to ``n_outbreak_cases``
as there can not be more outbreak cases as cases in total.
Note also that each row represents the number of cases
observed in the **period** between the row's timepoint and the
next timepoint. So in the above example the first row denotes
that there were zero cases observed from 2004-01-05 up to
2004-01-11 inclusive.

Fitting
-------

When passing the data frame to ``fit`` the outbreak cases are
subtracted from the total cases to obtain the *in control*
time series, i.e. the time series without outbreaks.

If you do not have any labeled outbreak data, but just the raw
counts you can fill the ``n_outbreak_cases`` column with
zeros under the assumption that your data is in fact
*in control* data.

.. code-block:: python

    data["n_outbreak_cases"] = 0

Prediction
----------
At prediction time only the total case counts are required.
The data frame passed to ``predict`` needs to consist
of observations that are spaced at the same regular time intervals
as the training data. All data points should lie strictly
in the future of the training data. The data frame returned
is the original data augmented by an ``alarm`` column that
indicated whether the model predicts an outbreak at that time
point or not.

.. code-block:: python

               n_cases  alarm
    2011-01-03        1    0.0
    2011-01-10        0    0.0
    2011-01-17        3    0.0
    2011-01-24        3    0.0
    2011-01-31        3    0.0


Using Time Series Classification Models
---------------------------------------
For each each model in the :ref:`timepoint-model-api-doc` there
is a corresponding model in the :ref:`timeseries-model-api-doc`.
These models basically perform the same task, but make a binary
prediction (alarm / no alarm) for an entire time series instead of
just a single time point. See :ref:`time-series-classification-formalization`
for a more detailed discussion. Therefore, bot ``fit`` and
``predict`` take iterables of data frames described above and labels:
``Iterable[Tuple[DataFrame, bool]]``. The label indicates whether
the last time point of the time series is to be considered an outbreak.
The ``predict`` method in this case only returns a time series of alarms.

Commit message:

Make outbreak detection possible without labels (#29)
* Make outbreak detection possible without labels

* Add test for better coverage

* Incorporate revision

* Clarify documentation

docs/3_user_guide.rst, after:

User  Guide
===========

Using ``epysurv`` models should be straightforward if you
are familiar with ``scikit-learn`` and ``pandas``.

Data Format
-----------

Let's first consider the models in the
:ref:`timepoint-model-api-doc`. 
Each model has a ``fit`` and a ``predict``
method that takes a ``pandas.DataFrame`` representing an
epidemiological count time series of the following form:

.. code-block:: python

                n_cases  n_outbreak_cases
    2004-01-05        0                 0
    2004-01-12        0                 0
    2004-01-19        2                 0
    2004-01-26        2                 0
    2004-02-02        1                 0


The data frame needs to have a regular ``DatetimeIndex`` and
two columns containing case counts. ``n_cases`` represents the
total number of cases observed and ``n_outbreak_cases`` the number
of cases are labeled as belonging to an outbreak. Therefore
``n_cases`` should always be bigger or equal to ``n_outbreak_cases``
as there can not be more outbreak cases as cases in total.
Note also that each row represents the number of cases
observed in the **period** between the row's timepoint and the
next timepoint. So in the above example the first row denotes
that there were zero cases observed from 2004-01-05 up to
2004-01-11 inclusive.

Fitting
-------

When passing the data frame to ``fit`` the outbreak cases are
subtracted from the total cases to obtain the *in control*
time series, i.e. the time series without outbreaks.

If you do not have any labeled outbreak data, but just the raw
counts, the ``n_cases`` column will be taken as is
under the assumption that your data is in fact
*in control* data. A warning is still issued in this case.

Prediction
----------
At prediction time only the total case counts are required.
The data frame passed to ``predict`` needs to consist
of observations that are spaced at the same regular time intervals
as the training data. All data points should lie strictly
in the future of the training data. The data frame returned
is the original data augmented by an ``alarm`` column that
indicated whether the model predicts an outbreak at that time
point or not.

.. code-block:: python

               n_cases  alarm
    2011-01-03        1    0.0
    2011-01-10        0    0.0
    2011-01-17        3    0.0
    2011-01-24        3    0.0
    2011-01-31        3    0.0


Using Time Series Classification Models
---------------------------------------
For each each model in the :ref:`timepoint-model-api-doc` there
is a corresponding model in the :ref:`timeseries-model-api-doc`.
These models basically perform the same task, but make a binary
prediction (alarm / no alarm) for an entire time series instead of
just a single time point. See :ref:`time-series-classification-formalization`
for a more detailed discussion. Therefore, bot ``fit`` and
``predict`` take iterables of data frames described above and labels:
``Iterable[Tuple[DataFrame, bool]]``. The label indicates whether
the last time point of the time series is to be considered an outbreak.
The ``predict`` method in this case only returns a time series of alarms.
